Hey everyone, welcome back to Bootstring
come with Bootstrap to WordPress.
In this lecture we're gonna be cleaning
our templates with get_template_part().
[MUSIC]
Woo, all right.
Now we're in the last video
of this module where we,
basically all we're gonna do now is
just clean up our home template.
As you can see,
we have a lot of code in HTML and
PHP in this page, in this template.
We have 372 lines of code
just in this page, and
we can minimize that quite a bit actually.
And I also want to use this as a good
opportunity to introduce you to another
development technique in WordPress.
So which is super common, and
something you should know, so
I think this is the perfect
opportunity to show you.
So basically, I want to show you how to
use the function called get template part.
Here's the WordPress codex.
The famous WordPress Bible,
I think I will call it.
It lets you know everything you need
to know about WordPress, so right now,
we're going to be using the get
template part function.
And so, what it does, is it loads
a template part into a template,
other than a header, sidebar or footer,
because those have their own specific
functions, like get header,
get sidebar, get footer.
Remember?
So it makes it easy for a theme to reuse
sections of code, and an easy way for
child themes to replace
sections of their parent theme.
So includes the name template part for
the theme.
Or if a name is specified,
then a specialized part will be included.
Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah.
Basically what you gotta do is use
the function, get_template_part and
then the parameters are slug and name.
How that works is,
let me just show you a perfect example.
Look over here in your sidebar of Coda.
If you're using Coda, which you should.
And if you're not,
just open up the page.php.
The generic WordPress page.php that's
supplied with your underscores theme.
You can see here the function
get_template_part is used.
So page.php is the default
page that's used for
all pages if they're not
specified otherwise.
And so if you open this up here, page.php.
It looks pretty empty.
There's not a lot to it.
But if you wanted to update the template,
the code, the markup, the layout.
Where is it?
Well it's actually in content page.
So where is that?
Again look over here in your sidebar.
Here we go, we got some PHP files
here called content, dash, and
a series of different pages.
So we have content-none, page-search,
single, and just plain old content.php.
get_template_part.
If you just say content, then that should
just serve up your content.php page.
But what we're really looking for
here is content-page,
and so in here is where the content
is available for you to edit.
Basically, this is just a fancy
WordPress way of using includes, so
if you took my php course.
You know that we included.
We went php include header.php.
Or include slash, or php function include.
And then in the includes folder
we chose header, sidebar,
footerl whatever, member whatever we did.
So basically this is a fancy
way of doing that so
get_template_part is
what were going to use.
So if your a forward thinker then you
already know what were going to do is just
take certain sections out of these,
literally sections,
HTML5 sections, and we're going to put
them in their own content templates.
So that we can get template part.
Just to keep things a little bit cleaner.
And so, there are a few ways we can do it.
We can just take the entire home
page from in between header and
footer, all the way down here,
and just say content-home.
Boom, done.
The page-home.php literally is six or
seven lines of code and
an include in the center of it.
But that leaves us with a pretty
meaty content-home.php.
And it's really kind of useless to us, all
we're doing is just taking content from
one spot, taking code from one spot and
shoving it into another php file.
Doesn't really help us out.
And we can't reuse that as efficiently.
What if we wanna reuse the hero
section on a separate page.
What if want to reuse the opt-in section.
What if we want to reuse boost in
your income, so on and so forth.
Then all we need to do is get
template part, content, boost income,
whatever, right?
So that's essentially what we're gonna do.
So super easy.
Let's do it.
All you gotta do is just
create some files here, so
I'm gonna create a new file called
content dash, let's start with hero.
Content-hero.PHP.
Now what we could do is we
could take everything, so for
example this, or we can take just
the content within the container.
I think what is best practice and for
future scalabilities is to take the entire
thing, because what if we wanna
use the entire hero section?
Then we just have to say
get_template_part content hero
rather than code the first few tags and
then get template part and
then add those tags,
you know what I'm saying?
So just take that, get it right out
of there, and go to content hero.
Bam, paste that in there.
Save that, now make sure before anything,
you php
get_template_part('content','hero') and
then the two parameters are content and
then hero.
So that should grab our content hero.
Let's give it a check.
All right here it is, and I see
immediately a couple pretty major issues.
Where are the prices?
And where is the button text?
That's a problem.
But I already know what it is, so
follow me back to the code editor.
Basically the problem is, here in
the content hero, we're referencing some
variables that don't exist in this page,
in this PHP page.
And it can't pull from these variables
back here because they're specific here
and they're not global.
So we need to just essentially grab
the custom fields cuz that's
the ones we're using there.
And cut those out of there
paste it at the top of
your content hero in a PHP script and
save that.
Give that a check, they're good
to go there it is, no problem.
However it looks like our opt in box
is gone probably because I went in and
grabbed the opt in content right here, and
I put it in the content hero
when it's actually not.
Here we go,
I'm gonna leave that there for now.
Opt in section,
I'm gonna want to use that.
Because, maybe we wanna add an opt in
section on other pages in the future.
So, go ahead and create a content
page called content-optin.php.
Grab that opt in section.
Paste that in there.
You're gonna need to start a PHP script
up here, because we need to grab those
variables that we created up here.
Yeah.
There it is.
Boom.
There we go.
That should work.
Let's just check.
Actually, you can't check until you
get_template_part('content'_optin').
There we go.
There it is.
Boom.
Great.
Now we've got our
How You Can Boost Your Income section.
All right.
We're gonna go content,
new page, content-boost.php.
That sounds good to me.
Grab boost your income.
Cut that out of there.
Content boost.
And don't forget you're gonna need to grab
those variables specific to that page.
And that should be this one right here.
Great.
Paste those in a PHP script up here.
Excellent.
Save, double check your work.
You don't want to keep going and
find out you messed up.
I messed up, see.
I gotta go back to the home page,
here, see what happened.
Content optin, I forgot to
get_template_part('content','boost').
Good thing I check my work, right?
There it is.
This is looking good.
All right.
Back to Code Editor.
You should know the deal by now.
I'm going to keep going.
I won't fast forward because
maybe you need to follow along.
But I'm just basically going to try and
hammer through this as fast as possible.
Next up we've got our
who benefits section.
New file.
Content-benefits.php.
We're gonna snag that out of there.
Grab this out of there too.
Paste that in.
Good to go, and don't forget, again,
the
get_template_part('content','benefits').
What are course features?
We're going to go New File,
content, coursefeatures.
All one word.
Kind of a big one.
And I'm gonna grab our
course features here.
Paste that in.
Start my PHP script up at the top here.
Hit back.
Go ahead and grab my features.
Paste them in, save, and
then get _template_part.
That is ('content','coursefeatures'),
and then we got our project features,
projectfeatures.php.
I'm going to snag this, cut it out.
Paste that.
Boom.
PHP.
Grab our project feature content.
That should be about it.
And then we're going to have
to get that template part and
that will be project features.
Great.
And then we have our video featurette.
So, let me just go New File content,
video.PHP.
Maybe it's a bad name cuz maybe we'll
have a different content video.
Content video, let's just call it
featurette, that's pretty specific.
Although this is static content in there,
in the future we may change that.
Maybe you have already did my
challenge that I suggested you try.
And I still suggest you try it.
Is make this dynamic.
Use some advanced custom fields.
And give yourself the ability
to embed a video.
See what happens.
Okay.
And I'm gonna have to
get that template part.
We have no variables for that one.
And this is ('content','featurette').
And then we've got a new
file content instructor.php.
Grab that content for instructor.
Bam.
Paste it in.
PHP Grab those variables,
we've got quite a few.
Save that.
This is going to be
('content','instructor').
And then we've got our testimonials.
This is an important one to make dynamic
because testimonials are great and
it would be a good idea to have them be
available on any part of the site
that I want to be able to add it.
So grab the testimonials.
Paste those in there.
And there are no variables for
that, so we're good.
Make sure to get_template_part for
testimonials.
And then, clean that up here.
Now looky, looky at our page-home.php.
Look how clean this is.
26 lines of code.
Could be less if I didn't have so
many spaces in between, but there we go.
We have our sections, but
now let's just make sure that they're
all there and that we didn't mess up.
So right from the top, we've got our Hero,
Opt-in, Boost Your Income section,
Who Should Take This Course,
Course Features, Project Features.
The video featurette.
And oh, something's happening here.
The instructor section doesn't work.
I wonder why.
Hm, well what I do think is when we,
there could be a few possible options.
When we split our stuff
out into templates,
potentially maybe we forgot to close
a PHP tag or something like that.
But I actually went through
beforehand to see what happened.
And what I did was I took this
line of code qnd I cut it, and
paste it one after another
after each section and
then refresh the page to
see where the problem was.
So when I pasted it after hero, fine,
after optin fine, boost your income fine,
but when I pasted it after course
features it stopped working, so
that tells me that course features
is where the problem was.
And when I look at the course
features page there's no errors.
But what I do see is we changed
the global WordPress query
to something specifically
targeting course feature.
And then the reason why the next couple
like we have the project features and
the testimonials.
The reason why those are fine is because
they're taking the WordPress query and
they're rewriting it to what
those templates need it for.
But the instructor page isn't redefining
what the WordPress query
global variable is.
And so therefore it's trying to find
instructor info from course feature and
that ain't gonna work.
So what you gotta do is reset the query,
and there is,
luckily, or thankfully, a function for
that, just WordPress reset query.
It restores the WordPress query and global
post data to the original main query.
It should be called after query_posts
if you must use that function.
So for example, check it out here.
We use pretty much exactly
this at some point so
we have our custom query,
new WordPress query and the arguments.
And then we go and
loop through our course features,
product features, testimonials,
end the loop but we don't reset the query.
That's important.
So lets go back to our course features.
And after endwhile, go ahead and
reset that query like that.
But we need to also use that in our
project features after the endwhile.
And we should probably do it after
testimonials as well because we
create a new variable.
So now, let's check it out
to see if our site works, or
if our instructor section works.
And there you go, there I am looking
like Elvis, and there's all my info,
everything's great and we're good to go.
Wait a minute, broken image, real quick,
head to that footer page,
that footer template.
Darn footer.
We just need to take the, here it is.
That's going to be php
bloginfo['stylesheet_directory'].
And then slash assets image,
blah blah blah.
Let's see if that worked.
All right, we're good.
Back to the races.
There it is.
There's the homepage, perfect.
You did it, it's fully dynamic,
beautiful, amazing.
Great work,
we're gonna enter a new module now and
we're gonna create our resources page.
We're gonna make a resources page dynamic,
and
that's gonna be a lot of fun because we're
gonna be using more custom post types.
See you there.
[MUSIC]